# Part 4. Shut down your cluster 

## 28.
Since you have modified some of the files in the `/data` directory, you will want to save a new snapshot of the `/data` directory so you can continue from where you left off the next time you create a new cluster. You can do this by running the `update_snapshot.sh` script from a Terminal window on your computer (replace `~/Documents/EE3801/PyHipp` with the path to your `PyHipp` repository):

> <p class="note"> Note
>
> Windows users: Before running the command below, you will need to convert the Windows DOS format into unix format by doing:
> ```shell
> $ dos2unix ~/Documents/EE3801/PyHipp/update_snapshot.sh 
> ```

```shell
(aws) 
$ chmod a+x ~/Documents/EE3801/PyHipp/update_snapshot.sh

(aws) 
$ ~/Documents/EE3801/PyHipp/update_snapshot.sh data 2 MyCluster01
```

The first command will make the script executable while the second command will start the process of creating the snapshot. 

The first augment is the name of the snapshot `data`, the second number `2` specifies how many similarly named snapshots to keep, while the last argument `MyCluster1` specifies the name of the cluster you want to base the snapshot on.

Keep in mind that each snapshot you keep will use up some of your AWS credits. This command might take a while, so you can return once you receive the email notification.

## 29.
Check that the snapshot was created properly using the following command:

```shell
(aws) 
$ aws ec2 describe-snapshots --owner-ids self  --query 'Snapshots[]' --region=ap-southeast-1
```

You should see something like the following:

```shell
[
    {
        "Description": "data",
        "Encrypted": false,
        "OwnerId": "xxxxxxxxxxxx",
        "Progress": "100%",
        "SnapshotId": "snap-xxxx",
        "StartTime": "2020-11-04T11:10:40.838Z",
        "State": "completed",
        "VolumeId": "vol-xxxx",
        "VolumeSize": 1000
    },
]
```

## 30.
You can add the `update_snapshot.sh` script to your shell’s path by adding the following line to your shell’s config file (substitute in the path to your `PyHipp` directory):

```bash
export PATH="/Users/your-user-name/Documents/EE3801/PyHipp:$PATH"
```

> <p class="note"> Note
>
> In case you are not so sure what is your full path, cd to where your PyHipp is at and do:
> ```shell
> $ pwd 
> ```

## 31.
Once you have received the email notifying you that the snapshot has been completed, you can delete the cluster:

```shell
(aws) 
$ pcluster delete-cluster --region ap-southeast-1 --cluster-name MyCluster01
```

Check that you have no clusters running:

```shell
(aws) 
$ pcluster list-clusters --region ap-southeast-1
```

This should return an empty list. If it does not, you will have to retry your cluster deletion command.

## 32.
In the future, you will just need to do the following to create a cluster, wait till you receive the notification that the head node is running, and then ssh to the head node:

```shell
(aws) 
$ pcluster create-cluster --cluster-configuration ~/cluster-config.yaml --cluster-name MyCluster01 

(aws) 
$ pcluster ssh -i ~/MyKeyPair.pem --region ap-southeast-1 --cluster-name MyCluster01 
```

When you are done, you can do the following to create a snapshot, wait till you receive the notification that the snapshot has been completed, and then delete the cluster:

```shell
(aws) 
$ update_snapshot.sh data 2 MyCluster01

(aws) 
$ pcluster delete-cluster --region ap-southeast-1 --cluster-name MyCluster01
```

